README.md, before:

* * *

**[fluidsynth~] - A soundfont player for Pure Data that uses fluidsynth.**

* * *

### About:

[fluidsynth~] is an external for Pure Data that loads fluidsynth for a fullblown orchestra.

**FluidSynth** is a Real-Time SoundFont Software Synthesizer (see https://www.fluidsynth.org and https://github.com/FluidSynth/fluidsynth). The latest at the time of writing is v 2.1.6!

This is a modification of https://github.com/porres/pd-fluid



--------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Licence:

Distributed under the GPLv2+, please check the LICENSE file for details.



--------------------------------------------------------------------------

#### Building [fluid~] for Pd Vanilla:

First you need to install  **FluidSynth** (https://www.fluidsynth.org/) in your system. You can run the makefile after that.

This project relies on the build system called "pd-lib-builder" by Katja Vetter (see: <https://github.com/pure-data/pd-lib-builder>). PdLibBuilder tries to find the Pd source directory at several common locations, but when this fails, you have to specify the path yourself using the pdincludepath variable. Example:

<pre>make pdincludepath=~/pd-0.51-4/src/  (for Windows/MinGW add 'pdbinpath=~/pd-0.51-4/bin/)</pre>

* Installing with pdlibbuilder

Go to the pd-else folder and use "objectsdir" to set a relative path for your build, something like:

<pre>make install objectsdir=../fluid-build</pre>

Then move it to your preferred install folder for Pd and add it to the path.

Cross compiling is also possible with something like this

<pre>make CC=arm-linux-gnueabihf-gcc target.arch=arm7l install objectsdir=../</pre>



#### Further instructions:

#### - macOS

Download and install **FluidSynth** via homebrew (https://brew.sh/).

- "brew install fluidsynth"

After running the makefile, run the "localdeps.macos.sh" script with "fluid~.extension" as the argument. This magical script that copies the dynamic libraries into the external folder and links them correctly.



#### - Windows

Download the 32bit and 64bit **msys2** packages of **FluidSynth**:

`pacman -S mingw32/mingw-w64-i686-fluidsynth`

`pacman -S mingw64/mingw-w64-x86_64-fluidsynth`

and install the **ntldd** package:

`pacman -S mingw32/mingw-w64-i686-ntldd-git`

`pacman -S mingw64/mingw-w64-x86_64-ntldd-git`

Then `cd` MinGW to this repo and do:

`make`

or you can also specify more options with:

`make PDDIR=<path/to/pd directory> PDLIBDIR=<path/to/output>`

then do this command that fills dependencies on the installation dir:

`make windep`



#### - Linux

first build **fluidsynth**! Download sources from https://github.com/FluidSynth/fluidsynth/releases and get the following dependencies (shown for Debian)

`sudo apt install cmake libglib2.0-dev libsndfile1-dev patchelf`

(patchelf is not needed for building fluidsynth, but for a later step)
then `cd` to your fluidsynth sources dir an do:

`````
mkdir build
cd build
cmake -Denable-libsndfile=on -Denable-jack=off -Denable-alsa=off -Denable-oss=off -Denable-pulseaudio=off -Denable-ladspa=off -Denable-aufile=off -Denable-network=off -Denable-ipv6=off -Denable-getopt=off -Denable-sdl2=off -Denable-threads=off ..
sudo make install
`````

then `cd` to the sources of this repo and do (change the pgklibdir path according to your needs):

`make pkglibdir=$HOME/Pd/externals install`

Now you can copy all dependencies of `fluidsynth~.pd_linux` to the install path by running:

`make pkglibdir=$HOME/Pd/externals localdep_linux`

The result can be uploaded to Deken, since it runs also on systems where the fluidsynth library is not installed.


--------------------------------------------------------------------------


### Acknowledgements :

Thanks to the **authors of fluidsynth** (https://github.com/FluidSynth/fluidsynth/blob/master/AUTHORS). Also thanks for those who worked on previous externals that loads fluid synth, such as **Larry Troxler**, author of the [iiwu~] external, which was the basis of the [fluid~] external by **Frank Barknecht** in [04/04/2003].  **Jonathan Wilkes** Ported [fluid~] from Flext/C++ to Pd's API using plain C/pdlibbuilder.  **Albert Gräf** expanded the functionality of the object to take more MIDI messages. More thanks to **IOhannes Zmölnig** for the magical script that copies the dynamic libraries into the external folder and links them correctly. Thanks to **Lucas Cordiviola** and **Roman Haefeli** for helping on how to build for windows/Linux and **others from the pd-list** that also helped.


--------------------------------------------------------------------------

Commit message:

Update readme with Windows installation target

README.md, after:

* * *

**[fluidsynth~] - A soundfont player for Pure Data that uses fluidsynth.**

* * *

### About:

[fluidsynth~] is an external for Pure Data that loads fluidsynth for a fullblown orchestra.

**FluidSynth** is a Real-Time SoundFont Software Synthesizer (see https://www.fluidsynth.org and https://github.com/FluidSynth/fluidsynth). The latest at the time of writing is v 2.1.6!

This is a modification of https://github.com/porres/pd-fluid



--------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Licence:

Distributed under the GPLv2+, please check the LICENSE file for details.



--------------------------------------------------------------------------

#### Building [fluid~] for Pd Vanilla:

First you need to install  **FluidSynth** (https://www.fluidsynth.org/) in your system. You can run the makefile after that.

This project relies on the build system called "pd-lib-builder" by Katja Vetter (see: <https://github.com/pure-data/pd-lib-builder>). PdLibBuilder tries to find the Pd source directory at several common locations, but when this fails, you have to specify the path yourself using the pdincludepath variable. Example:

<pre>make pdincludepath=~/pd-0.51-4/src/  (for Windows/MinGW add 'pdbinpath=~/pd-0.51-4/bin/)</pre>

* Installing with pdlibbuilder

Go to the pd-else folder and use "objectsdir" to set a relative path for your build, something like:

<pre>make install objectsdir=../fluid-build</pre>

Then move it to your preferred install folder for Pd and add it to the path.

Cross compiling is also possible with something like this

<pre>make CC=arm-linux-gnueabihf-gcc target.arch=arm7l install objectsdir=../</pre>



#### Further instructions:

#### - macOS

Download and install **FluidSynth** via homebrew (https://brew.sh/).

- "brew install fluidsynth"

After running the makefile, run the "localdeps.macos.sh" script with "fluid~.extension" as the argument. This magical script that copies the dynamic libraries into the external folder and links them correctly.



#### - Windows

Download the 32bit and 64bit **msys2** packages of **FluidSynth**:

`pacman -S mingw32/mingw-w64-i686-fluidsynth`

`pacman -S mingw64/mingw-w64-x86_64-fluidsynth`

and install the **ntldd** package:

`pacman -S mingw32/mingw-w64-i686-ntldd-git`

`pacman -S mingw64/mingw-w64-x86_64-ntldd-git`

Then `cd` MinGW to this repo and do:

`make`

or you can also specify more options with:

`make PDDIR=<path/to/pd directory>`

then do this command that installs and fills dependencies on the output dir:

`make localdep_windows`

or with more options:

`make localdep_windows PDLIBDIR=<path/you/want-the/output>`



#### - Linux

first build **fluidsynth**! Download sources from https://github.com/FluidSynth/fluidsynth/releases and get the following dependencies (shown for Debian)

`sudo apt install cmake libglib2.0-dev libsndfile1-dev patchelf`

(patchelf is not needed for building fluidsynth, but for a later step)
then `cd` to your fluidsynth sources dir an do:

`````
mkdir build
cd build
cmake -Denable-libsndfile=on -Denable-jack=off -Denable-alsa=off -Denable-oss=off -Denable-pulseaudio=off -Denable-ladspa=off -Denable-aufile=off -Denable-network=off -Denable-ipv6=off -Denable-getopt=off -Denable-sdl2=off -Denable-threads=off ..
sudo make install
`````

then `cd` to the sources of this repo and do (change the pgklibdir path according to your needs):

`make pkglibdir=$HOME/Pd/externals install`

Now you can copy all dependencies of `fluidsynth~.pd_linux` to the install path by running:

`make pkglibdir=$HOME/Pd/externals localdep_linux`

The result can be uploaded to Deken, since it runs also on systems where the fluidsynth library is not installed.


--------------------------------------------------------------------------


### Acknowledgements :

Thanks to the **authors of fluidsynth** (https://github.com/FluidSynth/fluidsynth/blob/master/AUTHORS). Also thanks for those who worked on previous externals that loads fluid synth, such as **Larry Troxler**, author of the [iiwu~] external, which was the basis of the [fluid~] external by **Frank Barknecht** in [04/04/2003].  **Jonathan Wilkes** Ported [fluid~] from Flext/C++ to Pd's API using plain C/pdlibbuilder.  **Albert Gräf** expanded the functionality of the object to take more MIDI messages. More thanks to **IOhannes Zmölnig** for the magical script that copies the dynamic libraries into the external folder and links them correctly. Thanks to **Lucas Cordiviola** and **Roman Haefeli** for helping on how to build for windows/Linux and **others from the pd-list** that also helped.


--------------------------------------------------------------------------
